---
title: Releases
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.1.5 Release Notes
========================

Links and Variables
-------------------

The links and the variables are objects now, inherited from `Link` and
`Variable` core objects respectively. Their values contain a target objects now.
The link interface can be passed to the link object construction expression as
type parameter. The link target can be specified as a part of a special phrase:

```
Link (`integer) [42]
Link (`integer) 42  // Works also
Link (`integer) (   // Canonical form
  = 42
)
```

The old link definition syntax is still supported without any changes.

A backquote can be used to access the link object itself instead of it's target:
``link` ``.

An arrow can be used to explicitly dereference the link object:
``link (`integer) [42] ->``.


### Links IR and Normalization ###

In the simple cases, the link and the variable objects have the same internal
representations as a link and variable artifacts had before. So, no overhead
will be added, unless a complex link definition or implementation used.


## Artifacts are Gone ##

The link and the variable was the only artifacts apart from the object. Now,
when they became objects, the notion of "artifact" is no longer needed.
**Everything is an object now!**


Arrays
------

### Array Objects ###

The base array objects were renamed:

* the immutable array is now called `Row`;
* the mutable array is now called `Array`;
* the base object of these two is now called `Abstract array`.


### Array Syntax ###

The array constructor syntax have been simplified. To construct the row simply
use brackets:
```
Arr := [1, 2, 3]
```

A type parameters can be used now to specify the array element type:
```
Arr := array (`string) (
  = ["a", "b", "c"]
)
```

An array constructor part of the phrase requires extra brackets to distinguish
it from arguments. The core array objects support this syntax for array
construction:
```
Arr := array (`string) [["a", "b", "c"]]
```

Phrase Syntax Updates
---------------------

The numeric value is treated as argument when specified without brackets,
unless it is a part of name.
