---
title: 0.1.3 Release Notes
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.1.3 Release Notes
========================

Normalization
-------------

A new stage added to compiler. It is called normalization and is responsible for
generated code redundancy elimination.

Code redundancy is inherent to "everythin is an object" approach, so the
normalization is essential to o42a.

Normalization techniques will evolve over time. In this release the object
inlining technique implemented. It is able to convert an object construction
expression into executable code without object data structure construction (and
extra memory allocation). Constructed object can be inlined, when it is known,
that object is only used to calculate it's value and the object type can be
predicted at compile time.

For example, the following statement:
```o42a
= a + b
```
involves three objects: two numeric operands and their sum object. But this
statement is only used to construct the sum of two numbers. Normalizer is able
to determine that. It will convert the sum object construction and access to
it's value to just summing of two numbers. Operands are subjects to
normalization also, so they can be inlined too. So, the inlining of compound
expressions is also possible.

Normalization leads to significant decrease in size of generated executables.
The test suite executable size decreased by almost 30%, while "Hello, World!" -
by 50%.


Predefined Object Modifications
-------------------------------

* `Void` object is no longer exposed as a pseudo-field of the root. Access to
  `void` is always static now, even from within root or it's descendants.
  `Void` object still can be addressed with `$$void` expression.
* `False` object is no longer a field of root. Access to `false` is always
  static now, even from root or it's descendants. `False` object still can be
  addressed with `$$false` expression.


New Compiler Options
--------------------

Two new command-line options added to `o42ac`:

* `-analyze-uses` (0/1, enabled by default) - this option controls whether
  compiler should track the uses of objects and other program model entities.
  With this disabled, the executable will contain __all__ objects from root,
  imported modules and program module, and will take the most conservative (and
  slowest) code generation decisions. It's meaningless to disable this option
  for something but compiler debugging.
* `-normalize` (0/1, enabled by default) - this option controls the
  normalization. Again, it's meaningless to disable this option for something
  but compiler debugging.
