---
title: Releases
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.7 Release Notes
========================

Type Arguments
--------------

The new syntax for passing of type arguments have been implemented. Now,
arguments should be written before the type:

Here are some examples:
```
integer` link               ~~ Link to integer.
string` array               ~~ Array of strings.
string` array` link         ~~ Link to array of strings.
(string` array)` link       ~~ The same as above.
(string, integer` row)` map ~~ Map of string keys to integer row values.
```


Initializers
------------

Initializer phrase parts supported now.

An initializer phrase part looks similarly to the phrase argument, i.e. it is
a value specified in square brackets. The difference is a `=` sign prefixing
the value itself:
```
Phrase [= value]
```

Initializers intended to be used to provide the initial values for objects, in
contrast to more general purpose arguments.

An initializer has a special syntax suitable for field initialization:
```
Field := type = value
```
, which is a more convenient form of the following declaration:
```
Field := type [= value]
```


Links and Variables
-------------------

The links and variables syntax and behavior changed significantly in this
release.


### Link Construction ###

The special syntax for link and variable field declarations have been removed.

Links and variables can be constructed with appropriate unary operators now:
```
My link := `target
My variable := ``initial value
```
or by utilizing the type arguments and initializers syntax:
```
My link := string` link = "abc"
My variable := string` variable = "initial value"
```


### Link Dereferencing ###

Links and variables are no longer dereferenced by default. Instead, an automatic
link dereferencing is performed when needed, allowing transparent access to the
link target in several situations:

* When a link member is referenced, the member is first searched for in the link
  object itself, and if not found, then it is searched for in the link target.
* When converting a link to another type, an attempt to convert the link object
  itself is performed (e.g. by searching for appropriate adapter), and if
  failed - the link target is converted.
* When interpreting the phrase with prefix resolving to a link, the clause
  corresponding to the first phrase part is first searched for in the link
  object itself, and if not found - in the link target.

In other cases the link should be dereferenced explicitly, with `->` construct.

The link body reference syntax is removed. It is no longer needed, as links
and variable can be referred to as any other objects.


Macro Expansion
---------------

The macro expansion expression is no longer an unary operator. Now, the scope
reference `#` can be used to expand the referred macro. This is done to unify
the `#` symbol usage, as in all other cases it is treated as reference.

This change also allows to use a macro expansion as type argument without
enclosing it into parentheses:
```
#t` link ~~ Link to object of type `t`
```
