---
title: Releases
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.2 Release Notes
========================

Syntax Changes
--------------

This release contains a significant syntax changes, which are not backward
compatible.


### New Comments Syntax ###

C-style comments used since the beginning of o42a development are gone now.
They look too foreign to the language syntax.

The new, original comment syntax tries to make a comments more recognizable and
also prevents some poor practices of commenting out the code.

Both inline and block comments are supported:
```
~~ Inline comment to the end of line

~~ Inline comment to the closing tildes ~~

~~~
Block
comment
~~~
```

Apart from using tildes as comment bounds, there are some significant
differences with a C-style comments:

* An inline comment can be closed (with two ore more tildes). Otherwise, it will
  occupy the rest of the line. Thus an inline comments can not occupy more than
  one line.
* A block comment requires it's boundaries (consisting of three or more tildes)
  to be placed on a separate line. Nothing except spaces can be placed on the
  same line.


### Text Blocks ###

Text blocks can be used now to define a multi-line strings:
```
"""""
Multi
line
text
"""""
```

Text blocks do not recognize an escape sequences.

Also, string literals and text blocks are always recognized as expression
continuations now. There is no need to place an underscore to specify this.


Extended Macro Support
----------------------

Macro expansion can be used in more places now. They are recognized as 
statements, operands, and field definitions.


### Macro Field Expansion Syntax ###

A special syntax were added to expand macro fields:
```
Foo #macro [arg]  ~~ Where `macro` is a macro field of object `foo`.
```

The above is the same as:
```
#Foo: macro [arg] ~~ When `foo` is an ordinary object.
#Foo` macro [arg] ~~ When `foo` is link.
```

### Standard Macros ###

A `cast` macro field was added to link, variable, and getter. It can be used to
cast a link to the required type upon it's value override. This macro prevents
an incompatibility error from raising inside the prototypes and makes it
possible, e.g. to access a link target's adapter even if there is no such
adapter in the base object.

Also, a standard `Macros` library were implemented and a special syntax
implemented to expand macros defined inside of it:
```
Lnk := `123
##Interface [lnk] ~~ Integer
```

The above is the same as following:
```o42a
Use object 'Interface' from 'Macros'
Lnk := `123
#Interface [lnk] ~~ Integer
```
