---
title: 0.2.5 Release Notes
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.5 Release Notes
========================

Type Parameters
---------------

Type parameters can be declared for any object now.

They can be declared inside a type definition and used as macros, i.e. they can
be expanded:
```
Map :=> void #( 
  ~~~
  A key/value map interface.
  ~~~
  Key type := void   ~~ Key type parameter.
  Value type := void ~~ Value type parameter.
) (
  Get :=> link (`#value type) (
    ~~~
    Returns a value by its key.
    ~~~
    Key :=< link (`#key type)  ~~ A key of the value to find.
  )
)
```

Type parameters can be passed to constructed object with type parameters syntax:
```
Map (`string, integer)
```

Unlike ordinal fields, type parameters are accessible even when declared for
prototype. They can refer each other, but can not refer the object they declared
for, or its fields.


Syntax Improvements
-------------------

### Numbers ###

Hexadecimal, binary, and floating point number literals are supported now.

The `+` or `-` sign preceding the number is considered its part: it's not an
operator any more.


### Compare Operator ###

New _compare_ (**`<=>`**) binary operator has been added. It is a more generic
form of object comparison. It is overridable and can resolve to any expression,
but in order the other comparison operators to work it have to resolve to an
integer expression.


### Suffix Operator ###

A new overridable _suffix_ (**`~`**) operator has been added. It is called so
because it reverses the order its operands interpreted: the right operand is
used as a constructed phrase prefix, and the left one - as its first argument.
This makes it suitable for implementing things like quantities:
```
3~minutes
```

### Grouping Expression ###

A special grouping expression can be used instead of the parentheses at the very
beginning of any expression. So, the following expression:
```
("Some string": substring _from [5]) [1]
```

can be written without any parentheses:
```
"Some string": substring _from [5]\ [1]
```


### Simple Clause Identifiers ###

Clause identifiers have syntax similar to corresponding phrase parts, without
any syntax overhead:
```
Int :=> integer (
  <[]>  ~~ The declaration.
)

Int [5] ~~ The usage.
```

Fixes, Fixes, Fixes...
----------------------

The o42a code base was never carefully tested. So, any new non-trivial piece of
code written in o42a reveals a bunch of new bugs.

The work on collections module have been started during this release cycle. This
caused a lot of debugging and bug fixing. Hope the code is much more stable now.


Runtime License Change
----------------------

The language runtime license have been changed to the MPL-2.0. The LGPL is not
suitable, because it only works for dynamic linking, which is impossible with
o42a.


LLVM Upgrade
------------

o42a requires LLVM version 3.2 now.
