---
title: 0.2.10 Release Notes
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.10 Release Notes
=========================

This release contains a lot of significant changes to the language. A lot of
features were simplified, replaced, or just removed. This was necessary
primarily to reduce the complexity of the compiler. Several new important
features were added also.


No More Multiple Inheritance
----------------------------

The multiple inheritance support caused a lot of problems to the implementation.
So, I decided to remove it. The adapters could be a replacement for multiple
inheritance in many situations. It is a composition-over-inheritance choice.
Given the fact that composition in form of adapters is supported at language
level, it makes o42a somewhat better in this aspect than other OO languages.  


Simple Value Definition
-----------------------

The object value definition algorithm was too complicated. Now, the value
definition is no longer consists of claim and proposition - it is a single
function now.


Object Statefulness Replaced
----------------------------

... with eager value evaluation.

The `keep value` operator was removed, along with object statefulness.

Instead, an eager reference was added. It has simpler implementation and more
predictable behaviour.
 
The syntax is `Expression>>`. This reference evaluates the value of
`expression`, constructs a new object inherited from `expression` and
returns it. The value of the resulting object is constant, and equal to
previously evaluated value of `expression`.

This makes it possible to preserve the evaluated object value instead of
evaluating it on each request.


Short Adapter Declaration Syntax
--------------------------------

Adapters can be declared and/or overridden with shorter syntax.

The following:
```
@Main (
  Print "Hello, World!" nl
)
```

is a shorter way to write:
```
@Main := * (
  Print "Hello, World!" nl  
)
```

The short syntax construct either overrides an inherited adapter, or to declares
a new one.


Short Field Override Syntax
---------------------------

Field can be overridden now with shorter syntax too.

The following:
```
*Field (
  ~~ Definition
)
```

is a shorter way to write:
```
Field = * (
  ~~ Definition
)
```

Unlike a short adapter declaration syntax, the short field override syntax only
allows to override fields, but not to declare new ones. 


Static Fields
-------------

A static field can be declared now like this:
```
Field ::= void (
  ~~ Definition
)
```

Static fields are named objects declared only once. They never propagated
to inherited objects, and can not be overridden. But they still accessible from
inherited objects, just like any other field.

A static field can only be declared in module or inside another static field.


Aliases
-------

Aliases are named expressions, which can be accessed just like fields.

An alias can be declared like this:
```
Alias :- expression
```

Aliases can not be overridden. But when the alias expression is a reference to
the field of the same owner object, an alias becomes just another name for that
field, and can be used interchangeably with it.  


Yield Statement
---------------

A new _yield_ statements was added:
```
<< value
```

Just like a return statement this one returns a value. But next time the value
of the same object will be requested, the value evaluation will continue from
the next statement.

This allows to easily create value generators:
```
Generator := integer (
  << 1
  << 2
  << 3
)

Print [generator, generator, generator] ~~ Prints "123"
```

Syntax Changes
--------------

The ellipsis statement (`...`) was removed in favor of _continuation sentences_.
I.e. sentences terminating with ellipsis (`...`).

Also, a combined sentence terminators were added: _continued exclamation_
(`!..`), which allows to exit a named block, and _continued interrogation_
(`?..`), which is a short syntax for empty continuation sentence immediately
following the interrogative one, i.e. the same as `? ...`.

The local declarations now always require a `$` prefix to avoid possible
conflicts with field declarations. Tha `:=` and `=` signs can be used
interchangeably for local declarations. So, a valid local declarations could
look like this:
```
$Local 1 = value 1
$Local 2 := value 2
```

The value assignment syntax was changed completely to avoid any possible
similarities with field or local declarations. Now, a `<<` symbol used for value
assignments, including combined assignments:
```
Variable << value ~~ Assign `value` to `variable`
I +<< 1           ~~ Increase `i`.
```
Also, the value assignment is implemented using eager value evaluation. So that
it became just a syntax sugar for binding statement like this:
```
Variable <- value>>
```


Features Removed
----------------

The phrase outcome feature was removed. It wasn't very useful. And without it
a meaning of a phrase is easier to estimate.

The multi-section source files are no longer supported. Along with it,
an explicit inclusion statement became unnecessary and was removed too.
