---
title: Releases
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.3 Release Notes
========================

Stateless Values
----------------

Object values are now stateless by default. A stateless value is not cached in
the object like before. Instead, it is evaluated on each request, like the
object is a function without arguments.

Some value types are stateful however. Namely variables and mutable arrays (not
rows). These values evaluated at most once and then stored inside objects. The
subsequent value requests will return the same value. In case of variable, the
value can be reassigned, but will never be re-evaluated.


No More Getters
---------------

Getters are gone. They are not needed any more. Links became stateless ant act
exactly like getters before. A custom assignment can be applied to any link now.


The 'Keep Value' Operator
---------------------

It is possible to evaluate the value once and to use it multiple times after
that with a _keep value_ operator:
```
Left := //a
Right := //b
Print [left] ' + ' [right] ' = ' [left + right] nl
```
Note that each of the operands is evaluated only once, which can be really
useful if their value evaluation algorithms are heavy-weight, has side effects,
or non-deterministic.


The 'Value Of' Operator
-------------------

A new _value of_ operator extracts the value of an object. It is a convenience
expression, which makes it possible to write
```
/(a + b)
```

instead of
```
Integer (= a + b)
```

Runtime License Change
----------------------

The language run-time libraries are licensed under the terms of LGPLv3 or later
now. This allows to develop the proprietary programs in o42a.
