---
title: 0.2.11 Release Notes
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.11 Release Notes
=========================

This release does not contain any new language features. Instead it focuses
on the language runtime improvements. E.g. executables are more than two times
smaller now, as compared to previous version of compiler.
Also, the programs are faster now, and consume less memory.


Run Time Object Structure
-------------------------

Before this release an object was represented at run time as a set of
structures, each of which corresponded to object ascendant. This caused a lot of
problems. E.g. a simple field access required a lookup among these structures,
and new object construction was a quite complicated task.

Now, every object is represented as a simple structure, which is _known at
compile time_. Also, every object has a virtual method table (VMT), which
is built at compile time and contains pointers to field construction methods
(these pointers were stored in object itself previously). This made run
time object representation much simpler and smaller, fields accessed by simple
memory offset, and new object construction is cleaner and faster process.
Also, this simplified the compiler itself, and opened a lot of new possibilities
for further optimizations.

There is a cost however. To make this work, some limitations were applied to the
language semantics. It is not possible to inherit absolutely any object now.
It is required that compiler know the structure of inherited object.
E.g. it is not possible to inherit link target or variable value. But it is
always possible to inherit static object or object field. Also, it is always
possible to construct an eager object out of any one. But the eager object
itself can not be inherited.


Escape Analysis
---------------

Using a simple escape analysis, the compiler may decide to allocate some objects
on stack instead of a heap. The life cycle of stack-allocated object is not
controlled by garbage collector. This reduces the GC overhead. Also, when
a simple field can be allocated on stack, it doesn't occupy any space in its
owner, thus reducing its size and simplifying its structure.

The escape analysis is primitive right now. But even in its current
implementation it significantly optimizes the runtime. By improving this
technique more impressive results could be achieved.
