---
title: Releases
template: release.jade
---

o42a-0.2.6 Release Notes
========================

Locals
------

Locals are named expressions existing during the value evaluation only.

A local can be declared similarly to a field:
```
$Local := expression
```

Such local will be visible in the same code block after its declaration.


### Local Scope ###

There is also a special syntax, which allows to declare the local along with its
visibility scope. It is called local scope. In this case a local name is
declared __after__ its value and separated from it by `$` sign. The following
statement (separated from local declaration by colon) is the only one that can
access the local declared this way:
```
Expression $ local: $local + 1

1 $ left:
2 $ right (
  = $Left + $right
)
```

A local name can be omitted. Such local is called _anonymous_ and can be
accessed with `$` or `$$` references.

A variant of local scope declaration can be used for variable assignment, and
is allowed both inside the imperative and declarative code:
```
Variable $= value
```

This syntax can be used to implement things like increment in C-like languages,
or even more interesting ones:
```
Names [n] $= "Sir " + $ ~~ Prefix the Nth element of `Names` array
                        ~~ with "Sir " prefix.
```


Intervals
---------

An interval is a special syntactical construct suitable to represent all kinds
of intervals: opened and closed, bounded and unbounded:
```
[a...b] ~~ Closed interval
(a...b) ~~ Open interval
[a...b) ~~ Right-open interval
(a...)  ~~ Left bounded open interval
(a...-) ~~ The same as above
(...b]  ~~ Right-bounded interval.
(∞...b] ~~ The same as above.
(...)   ~~ Fully unbounded interval.
(∞...∞) ~~ The same as above.
```

Intervals are only allowed inside phrases. They are used, for example, to
extract substrings:
```
"abcde" [1...4) ~~ "bcd"
"abcde" [1...)  ~~ "bcde"
"abcde" (...4]  ~~ "abcd"
"abcde" (...)   ~~ "abcde"
```

Syntax Changes
--------------

The line is considered a continuation of preceding one only if it starts with an
underscore. Only spaces can precede the underscore on the same line. No comments
allowed.

Some of the scope references syntax changed. New scope references are:

* `//` - root object reference,
* `/` - module reference,
* `$` - local reference,
* `$$` - anonymous local reference.

Unary operators:

* `\` - value of,
* `\\` - keep value.

Both unary and binary operators accept Unicode symbols now. For example, a
_not equal_ operator can be written as `≠`, _division_ one - as `÷`,
_less than or equal_ - as `≤`, _not_ operator - as `¬`, and so on.

Intrinsic reference (`$object$` and `$prefix$`) are no longer supported.
Corresponding local references can be used instead inside clause content
(`$object` and `$prefix` respectively).
